= Ckeditor

CKEditor is a text editor to be used inside web pages. It's a WYSIWYG editor, which means that the text being edited on it looks as similar as possible to 
the results users have when publishing it. It brings to the web common editing features found on desktop editing applications like Microsoft Word and OpenOffice.

== Features

* Rails 3 integration
* Files browser
* HTML5 files uploader
* Hooks for formtastic and simple_form forms generators
* Extra plugins: attachment and embed.
* Assets pagination (under construction)

== Install

  gem install ckeditor

Or via bundler:

  gem "ckeditor", "~> 3.6.0"

=== Download ckeditor
  
  rails generate ckeditor:install

You can pass version of ckeditor to download (http://ckeditor.com/download/releases):

  rails generate ckeditor:install --version=3.5.4

=== Now generate models for store uploading files

==== ActiveRecord + paperclip

For active_record orm is used paperclip gem (it's by default).

  gem "paperclip"
  
  rails generate ckeditor:models --orm=active_record --backend=paperclip
  
==== ActiveRecord + carrierwave

  gem "carrierwave"
  gem "mini_magick"

  rails generate ckeditor:models --orm=active_record --backend=carrierwave

==== Mongoid + paperclip

  gem 'mongoid-paperclip', :require => 'mongoid_paperclip'
  
  rails generate ckeditor:models --orm=mongoid --backend=paperclip

==== Mongoid + carrierwave

  gem "carrierwave-mongoid", :require => 'carrierwave/mongoid'
  gem "mini_magick"

  rails generate ckeditor:models --orm=mongoid --backend=carrierwave


Available orms:
* active_record
* mongoid (Thanks Dmitry Lihachev https://github.com/lda)
* mongo_mapper (under construction)


Autoload ckeditor models folder (application.rb):

  config.autoload_paths += %W(#{config.root}/app/models/ckeditor)

== Usage

Include ckeditor javascripts:

  <%= javascript_include_tag :ckeditor %>

or (for rails 3.1):

  <%= javascript_include_tag "/javascripts/ckeditor/ckeditor.js" %>
  
Form helpers:

  cktext_area_tag("test_area", "Ckeditor is the best")

  cktext_area_tag("content", "Ckeditor", :input_html => {:cols => 10, :rows => 20}, :toolbar => 'Easy')
  
* input_html - Options for text_area tag, others for ckeditor javascript configuration.
* language - appends automatically, by default is I18n.locale
* available ckeditor options - http://docs.cksource.com/ckeditor_api/symbols/CKEDITOR.config.html

For configure ckeditor default options check:

  public/javascripts/ckeditor/config.js
  
This stylesheet use editor for displaying edit area:

  public/javascripts/ckeditor/contents.css

FormBuilder helper for more usefully:

  <%= form_for @page do |form| -%>
    ...
    <%= form.cktext_area :notes, :toolbar => 'Full', :width => 800, :height => 400 %>
    ...
    <%= form.cktext_area :content, :input_html => { :value => "Default value" } %>
    ...
    <%= cktext_area :page, :info %>
  <% end -%>

=== AJAX

Jquery sample:

  <script type='text/javascript' charset='UTF-8'>
    $(document).ready(function(){  
      $('form[data-remote]').bind("ajax:before", function(){
        for (instance in CKEDITOR.instances){
          CKEDITOR.instances[instance].updateElement();
        }
      });
    });
  </script>

=== Formtastic integration

  <%= form.input :content, :as => :ckeditor %>
  <%= form.input :content, :as => :ckeditor, :input_html => { :height => 400 } %>

=== SimpleForm integration

  <%= form.ckeditor :content, :label => false, :input_html => { :toolbar => 'Full' } %>

=== Default scope

For example, you need split assets collection for each user.

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  
    protected
      
      def ckeditor_filebrowser_scope(options = {})
        super { :assetable_id => current_user.id, :assetable_type => 'User' }.merge(options)
      end
  end
  
If your wont filter only pictures or attachment_files - redefine methods "ckeditor_pictures_scope" or "ckeditor_attachment_files_scope" respectively.
By default, both these methods call "ckeditor_filebrowser_scope" method:

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  
    protected

      def ckeditor_pictures_scope(options = {})
        ckeditor_filebrowser_scope(options)
      end
          
      def ckeditor_attachment_files_scope(options = {})
        ckeditor_filebrowser_scope(options)
      end
  end

=== Callbacks

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  
    protected
      
      # Cancan example
      def ckeditor_authenticate
        authorize! action_name, @asset
      end
      
      # Set current_user as assetable
      def ckeditor_before_create_asset(asset)
        asset.assetable = current_user
        return true
      end
  end


== I18n  

  en:
    ckeditor:
      page_title: "CKEditor Files Manager"
      confirm_delete: "Delete file?"
      buttons:
        cancel: "Cancel"
        upload: "Upload"
        delete: "Delete"

== Tests

  rake test
  rake test CKEDITOR_ORM=mongoid
  rake test CKEDITOR_BACKEND=carrierwave

This project rocks and uses MIT-LICENSE.
